---
layout: post
title: AI "art" is not art
excerpt: A rant about generative AI.
tags: ramble rant ai
comments_id: 14
hidden: true
---

AI makes me sad.

I'm obviously not the only one. Seeing human creativity be slowly replaced with AI saddens me. Going to Google images or Pinterest and seeing a bunch of soulless, samey-looking art; having to carefully analize each piece of art I come across that looks slightly weird. It's sad. I don't like it, at all. But I don't think I ever got to figure out what bothers me so much about it. It's just another tool, right? 

AI has gone from being a word only nerds understood to being this weird, mysterious entity that is here to take our jobs and make our lives easier! So what exactly are these jobs it's taking? Of course, making art! Writing! Being creative! We all hate those things, right?

I guess I'm not sure why we decided that that part of humanity was the one worth automating. We could be automating mundane tasks, stuff no one wants to do, but we chose art. Seriously, why?

# Trying to empathize

I feel unhappy about my art many times. Be it my drawing, or if I try music, there's been many times in my life where I wish I just had a shortcut. But that wouldn't feel as gratifying. I guess that's what's happening to AI users. The joy of being creative is undescribable. Finishing something you put work into for days, weeks or even years... It's amazing. But it's hard. It's so fucking hard. The thing is, though, that's what makes it great. The challenge. AI generation takes that part away from it, and that's the appeal of it. In this day and age we've learned to crave short bursts of dopamine, right in our hands, with little to no effort. It's something I do, it's something you do, something everyone does. And it's what AI gives. And I guess I can understand why users want that, why it's so appealing.

Of course, that's only part of the userbase of AI. A huge part of it is money-craving people who will do anything for just a little bit of revenue, to avoid paying artists. Capitalism, amiright? And another argument I see is convenience. Why should I spend time learning this skill when I can just tell a computer to do it for me? But that isn't a really good argument, is it? Stealing is convenient, doesn't mean you should do it. 

# What do you care? What is so bad about AI?

I'm not the best person to talk about this, but there's sooo many things wrong with the technology. The enviromental impact AI has is immense, consuming water, polluting air, etc. I recommend reading [this article](https://oecd.ai/en/wonk/how-much-water-does-ai-consume) about it. And that's the objective part of the consequences of AI training. But there's also the more subjective part: is it stealing?

I believe it is. The main arguemnt I've seen is "how is it different to human inspiration?". The thing is, AI "art" would not exist without its training data. The other day I saw someone said they created Terminator with AI. But the thing is, they didn't. It just would not exist if James Cameron hadn't done it first. It cobbled together pieces of Cameron's work. This is still very delicate, though. Because isn't that what humans do? But I think it's different in that when we do it, it passes through a human "filter". 

When a painter paints something, their past experiences, their emotions, their skill all goes into the piece. And while they can take stuff from other artist's styles, it's ultimately their own. What AI does is literally take data from other artist's works and mesh it together into a new Frankenstein's monster. Again, it would not exist without previous human work. So why shouldn't artists get paid for it? Companies like OpenAI and Midjourney would simply not make money if it wasn't for the million of artists and writers they took data from, artists and writers who they did not ask for consent. 

I've seen a push for ethically sourced AIs, and while I still don't think I'll ever feel good about generated art, I think that's a great step in the right direction. But right now, the biggest companies in generative AI don't follow that ethic. Midjourney has been found to have a list of artists names you can use as prompts, to "recreate their style". And sadly, there are no real laws against it. The copyright system needs a rework to account for this kind of stuff. But right now, corporations are capitalizing from artists that have dedicated huge parts of their lives to their craft and are now being reduced to 1s and 0s in a dataset. 

# The future

I really hope we can see a future where this is all regulated. We've already seen it happen with the writer's and actor's strike, and the animation industry is pushing for it too. I am optimistic, though. It's hard, but I am. Art has been around since the beginning of time, and it's not going anywhere. But we need to fight back. I don't just want to erase AI from existence. It's not going anywhere, after all. But we can change how we go about it.

Make art.

<hr>

This is very much not structured, so I recommend watching/reading some of this:
- [Why Artists Are Fed Up With AI Art](https://youtu.be/5Viy3Cu3DLk) - SamDoesArts
- [Why AI Models are not inspired like humans](https://www.kortizblog.com/blog/why-ai-models-are-not-inspired-like-humans) - Karla Ortiz
- [Why A.I. Isn’t Going to Make Art](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/the-weekend-essay/why-ai-isnt-going-to-make-art) - Ted Chiang for The New Yorker
