---
layout: post
title: Making
excerpt: On being creative.
tags: ramble
---

I've been having trouble making lately. Making games, writing, basically anything creative. It's not like I haven't done _anything_. Gaea is going great (though development has slowed down a bit these last few days), and I've been busy with college (maybe not as much as I should be). But creativity I've been struggling with, and I'm not even sure why.

I could blame college, and getting adjusted to that. I could blame the state of the world right now, but I'm privileged enough to not have to worry about making it through the month. And I'd like to blame those, because that would be easy, but it just isn't what's happening. 

My life has just become mostly consuming, with very little creation. And life without creation feels empty, which is why I've been desperately trying to come up with a simple solution, even though I don't think there is one. Where's the "Top 10 TIPS for when you FEEL like the part of your BRAIN that handles CREATIVITY is BLOCKED OFF from the rest of it (the 4th one will surprise you) \*ENDS BADLY\*" video? 

So what to do? When life gives you lemons, and they aren't even that sour because your life is actually going pretty well, they just taste like nothing, do you write a blog post about how you're struggling to make lemonade? Do you try to come up with a new recipe? I could look for a new hobby, try painting the lemons instead.
[[2024-08-04-plans]]

I'm not sure. I wish I could have a nice conclusion for the post but I just wanted to write something. Maybe this will be the push I need. 

Like and subscribe, and make sure to hit the bell so you get notified when I post another blog post in a year or so.
